If it was local,
I think it had to be, I don't know where people went.
Was Uncle Ed still going? Uncle Ed, for that type of
partying, which was usually just bowl sessions.
But yeah, Uncle Ed's was there until. And none of
those places that had been out near the air base
during the war, those were. Well, there was a, I was
never, never went there. There was something, it
had the name Purple.
And it was between the, it was on 21 or within a block
of Highway 21 somewhere. But it was a pretty tough
place. That was my impression of it. And
there was a place there where wieners in Bryan
there at Highway 21 and 6. Now, there used to be
something, a dance hall, one of these country
western. And that was a pretty popular place. But
really uh we go there were these big drive-ins the
texas drive-in down there where the chicken
what's
that dixie chicken dixie chicken yeah at the
triangle at the triangle uh the texan and then and
the triangle drive-in also there in the triangle
and then there was another one in on down on highway
six in Bryan. And those were popular hangout type
places. Did you, were y'all aware of a bootlegger
in Brazos County? I've not heard of anybody who
was. No, I knew of the Jones. Whiskey Bridge.
Whiskey Bridge, uh-huh. And that, that's one of
the things, my first, I had my first, my
introduction to wine.
when I was in summer school as a freshman after the
bull ring one Saturday afternoon. And it was
really a scorcher. This would have, it was the
latter part of the summer. And fished triple buzz
boy Yarbrough from Mississippi. He was, his dad
owned a large hunk of Mississippi Delta. And He had
an Oldsmobile 88. And so he took us, he wanted to go
out to Whiskey Bridge after the bull ring was
finished, and we'd get something to drink. He had a
card fixed and everything. And he got us, each one
of us, a bottle, a chilled bottle of wine. And it was
sweet wine. Tasted like, you know, tasted like
chilled grape juice or fruit juice. And sweet. And
boy, I was hot and thirsty. And that was good. And so
I drank mine on the way back to town. And I was
through easy before we got back into town. to the
campus.
And that stuff hit me just as we were walking from
the parking lot into the dorm. And they said they
essentially drug me to my bed, you know, and laid me
out. Now, as far as you recall, was there any
checking in those days to be sure that someone was
18 to buy whatever they were buying. You just had to
be ready, as I remember. My impression was that it
was pretty hit or miss. I don't remember any checks
or anything. What were people smoking then?
Chesterfield cigarettes, Camel cigarettes, and
Lucky Strikes were the big three. And we had, there
was a guy who, from Houston, who brought a
cigarette rolling machine with him. And so you
could buy Bull Durham or Prince Albert and roll
your own. And he was very popular with the people
that smoked. I
tried a few cigarettes. that summer of my freshman
year and in the fall I started smoking kind of on a
spotty basis, but that's when I started smoking
anyway. About what percentage, reckon, of the
students smoked
then?
Oh.
It wasn't unusual. There were quite a few people
smoked. It was common to go into a room and at least
one person be smoking. And it was okay to smoke in
the room. Yeah. You never thought about, not about
asking anyone if you could smoke there. What about
pipes and cigars?
A few cigars, no pipes that I remember until, well,
toward the end of my vet school time, I began to
notice some of the faculty and graduate students.
Chewing tobacco and snuff?
Not very often, but I don't remember any snuff, but
some chewing tobacco. Was that country? Yeah,
yeah. And heroin and marijuana? Didn't know
anything about that. Did you even know the words?
No. That's right.
Did anybody ever drink a mixed drink? Yeah,
well... Which to me meant putting something in a
Coca-Cola. Uh-huh, something like that. Rum and
Coca-Cola. Or vodka. Yeah. This was a big thing at
the big college dances in Chicago. in Sabisa or one
of the, you know, here on campus. And people would
go to elaborate means of concealing their bottle
and take it into the, to Sabisa or wherever so they
could have their mixed drinks. How did Aggies, in
fact, how did Aggies behave at those campus
dances? Well,
most of them were very well behaved, I thought. And
how were the women treated? Well, like queens.
Yeah, this was a very standard. I mean, if a woman, a
date was not treated that way, it was clearly the
exception and just a very glaring happening for
women. for a date not to be treated very much like a
princess. Had you and your buddies heard about a
chicken ranch at La Grange? Did you know it
existed? Yeah, we knew of that, but I can't
remember when I knew of that. Was it while you were
an undergraduate? Yeah, but I can't remember how.
how long I'd been here, whenever I learned. Did you
hear of any Aggies going over there?
Well, yeah, you heard people talking about it, but
you didn't know. whether it was or is wishful
thinking or whatever. I have wondered if the stage
version, which has a chicken ranch visit by Aggies
as a part of being a part of the Corps, I wondered if
that's been made up. I haven't heard much about in
all these interviews. The Korean War was going on
by this time. Yeah. What did you and your buddies,
what were you all thinking about the war and what it
might mean to you? Well,
this was a common
discussion
like in ROTC classes.
And a number of the core students during my
sophomore year were, you know, they were really
expecting to go and
were looking forward to it. I mean, and of course in
squadrons, well, I think most of the squadrons had
a fair number of students who envisioned
themselves the pilot of a fighter plane. And the
World War II vats were pretty well gone out of
school by then. And the large number of them. They
were just occasional ones. And they were very low
profile for almost always.
What was the status of the various
extracurricular groups? I'm assuming that the
corps commander was the highest. Yeah. student on
campus in terms of prestige. What did y'all think
about the band?
Well,
it was held in high regard.
Were there jokes about the band or anything then?
Y'all didn't make fun of them?
What about Yale leaders? Did they have high
status? Yeah, yeah. What other student
organizations were there with lots of
credibility? Well, Ross Volunteers, of course,
were very highly regarded.
A
lot of the various clubs were, you know, like the
FFA, Collegiate Chapter, that for in ag ed, you
know, for that group of people, that was a really a
pivotal organization. The Agronomy Society.
So a lot of the discipline-oriented
organizations were. Did you get in one of those?
Was there a pre-vet club or group?
No, well, not to my knowledge. I did not. That came
along later. Were you aware of the existence of
secret fraternities when you were a student? I had
heard of the TTs, but I didn't know really very
much. I didn't know any particulars about them.
Were you aware of anybody that supposedly was a
member? No. Or what they supposedly did? No. All
right, now during this sophomore year then,
you're headed toward vet school. When do you get,
when do you apply and get admitted? Well, make
application in the spring after I came back down
here. I think it would have been probably like
February, something around February. And I, It
was after
I came back down here that I went to the vet school.
That was the first time I was in the building that's
been occupied by CE for so long.
The information I got actually was provided by
one of the staff in the dean's office. But I did not
see Dean Boughton. See, he had his stroke, and so he
was not available. Fred Jagge, I remember being
introduced to him as the interim dean, but I don't
think he, I'm not sure he officially was that, but
he functioned that way. But,
I remember turning in my application there at the
dean's office in the vet school. As far as you were
aware, what kind of academic
requirements were there in terms of GPA and number
of hours and so forth? How hard was it going to be to
get in? Well, I had heard that it would probably
take a B average which at that time was a two-point
field.
As it turned out, it didn't take that, but that was a
scuttlebutt among my classmates, and I just
wasn't sure whether
I'd, because of my irregularities, you know, with
the problem I had with that organic chemistry
class and the low-grade intrigue, I was very
concerned about that. Now another course that I
had that was a first of its kind was physics. I was in
the first class of physics. These were a new
physics course that were presented, started my
sophomore year, for non-physics majors
principally pre-vets and pre-meds and those type
people and he was taught by the head of the
department of physics dr potter we call him
physics potter and that was quite an experience to
me i i did okay in physics but if i'd if i'd had if
electricity had been a larger part of it, I think I
probably would have flunked the course. I could
not get that down, get the concept down during the
time I was in that course. Dr.
Potter, bless his heart, he really threw himself
into the course, developing it. And he wanted to
make it relevant. for the students who were
taking. He wanted all of us to enjoy and like
physics. That was his goal. And so on the exams,
since the majority of the students, I think, that
were taking it that first year were pre-vet
students, so he would write questions He figured a
pre-vet student would identify with and be
interested in. For example, on resistance, I
remember he had a question. His question had to do
with, I think, gravity and maybe resistance.
Anyway, it was water swallowed by a giraffe.
And he had a question about an enraged bull, and I
got tickled with that.
I'm sure I was feeling the pressure, but it just hit
my funny bone, and I thought I wouldn't finish that
exam every time I'd come to that question on that
bull.
How long? I'd just lose it. After you applied for
admission, how long before you heard the result?
Well, we were called in. I don't know if everyone
was interviewed, but I was called in for
interview. Describe the interview. Oh, me, ooh,
that was. Who, how long, where? Well, it was in the
dean's office, and Dr. Boughton was back. He was,
had his cane. B-O-U-G-H? B-O-U, yeah. T-O-N.
Mm-hmm. And Dr. John Miloff,
Dr. Leonard, and
Dr. Jaggi. J-A-G-G-I. Uh-huh. As I remember
those, I think that was it. And was Boughton
Miloff? Yeah, there were four of them, I think.
Well, Dr. Bowden was sitting behind his desk over
here. I was sitting just inside the door. And
he was leaning back sort of like this, so he was very
low profile physically. And the other three, the
three faculty members were sitting in chairs on,
this side so as the interview developed well they
developed it you know asking for information from
me and so on and
they asked one of them asked if i knew what bai was
and i I had just heard or read about it not very long
before Bureau of Animal Industries and so I said
yes and they asked well what is it I told them it's a
branch of the government and then the next
question well tell us what it does and I was you know
of course I was wanting to really impress them with
what I knew about it. That's all I knew was that it
was BAI branch of the government or federal
agency. As it turns out, see at that particular
time, that was the branch of government in which
disease control was being handled by
veterinarians. And so it was the agency you went to
work for if you were a veterinarian. I didn't know
that. So I just sat there trying to think, how do I
answer this without sounding too stupid? And I
wasn't, I don't know how long it was silent. The
silence was broken by Dr. Boughton slamming his
cane down on top of the desk. And expletive,
expletive, expletive. You've got to answer
things. You've got to think on your feet. That's
what he said. You've got to think on your feet,
young man, if you want to be a veterinarian. And
boy, I don't remember any interview after that.
And it was over, fortunately, shortly after. Half
hour, hour? Do you have any idea what the length
was? It would, I think on the order of a half hour
probably. And then how long before you heard the
result of your application?
I think it was two or three weeks. Phone call,
letter, what? How'd you? Letter. Letter. Uh-huh.
Did you, what was your guess before you opened it?
What did you think the result was gonna be? I
figured I probably wasn't gonna get in after all of
that. And in those days they were admitting how
many? 64. 64, okay. And did you? I was in and
probably, I don't know what they did with the
interviews. I'm sure, talking with Dr. John in
years after that, that they had no formal way for
assigning a weight or anything. You could
probably just out and out disqualify yourself by
doing something really stupid or weird, but I
don't think That little deficit on my part was
probably, I just provided entertainment for the
committee probably for the rest of the morning.
Did you do anything to celebrate? Did you make any
phone calls? I called home. What did mom and dad
say? They were very pleased. And so
then you go home that summer? Yeah, I work in the oil
field. I'm really pretty motivated at that point.
And you come back then in the fall. And the word had
gotten around in Winters that I had been admitted
to vet school. I was going to be a veterinarian. And
that they had a rodeo in Winters that summer. And
not a very big one, but a local rodeo. And in the
course of events,
they, in, clearing one of the horses that a rider
had who cleared the bulls out from the arena. That
horse was gored by a bull and his horn went in and
just kind of went up a rib a little bit and opened up a
pretty nasty looking wound. So I was called with
much fanfare and that was my first case. trying to
sew up that nasty wound. Right. Then you come back
that fall. Did you seek anybody's advice or
counsel before coming back to vet school? No. I
didn't know in Winters or in that area. Well, there
was a veterinarian in Ballinger by the name of
Zedlitz, Dr. Zedlitz, but he was what to me was of
such ancient years that anything he would have
known wouldn't have been useful to me. You were not
really acquainted with a veterinarian, were you?
No, not there. I had known a veterinarian, two
veterinarians in Fisher County, and they had
observing them, a man by the name of Aldridge and a
man by the name of Sweetwater and a young
veterinarian by the name of Jones in row 10. As you
were at that point, what did you think you were
going to do as a veterinarian? I was going to large
animal. See, my decision, the reason I selected
veterinary medicine, I felt that that would
provide me with a means of livelihood that would be
sufficient that I could buy my own stock farm. I
wanted to have a stock farm or a ranch. That was my
goal. In that area? In the western part of the
state, yeah. Well, about west of here, I mean,
central to west Texas. So I was, my thought was
probably, was mostly large animal, but I, or a
general practice. As far as you knew, did
veterinarians make good income? I thought they
did, yeah. It seemed to me that they were doing
pretty well. And the animals that you had cared
for, before that time were on your dad's property
and a few pets?
Yeah, well, the pets were not of any significance.
I mean, we had dogs and a cat, but they were just dogs
and cats. I was close with the dogs, but I was very
successful in high school in swine production and
i had a pretty i grew into a pretty sizable little
herd of uh or drove of a registered duroc jersey
pigs and started out with a sears pig out of the
sears program and went on from there and uh so i i was
a serious animal husband just when i was in high
school i See, when we lived in Brownwood, before I
moved there, my orientation was largely in math.
And I accelerated, actually, in junior high
school in the program they had in Brownwood and
took so much of the math that when I got to Robie, I'd
already had all the courses that they taught, that
they offered. So I went... my junior and senior
year in high school, I had no math, and that was part
of my problem then when I hit that trig course. I
didn't have a, I'd been away from it a while. When
you get back that fall to begin vet school. Uh-huh,
I meet one, Alvin A. Price, among others. Describe
your first impressions of him. Oh, he was about the
slickest thing I'd ever seen. That guy could talk,
you know, boy, I mean, he was a lecturer and a half.
And very, very impressive. He had a standard first
lecture, which was a motivational lecture. It's
the sort of lecture that every vet school every vet
school needs a person to deliver that lecture and
it's got to be a person though that's the teacher of
the students in that first year and really set them
straight what were the main major points in that
speech well the uh he was exalting veterinary
medicine as a profession and uh he he started out
simply by instructing us in the appropriate use of
the word veterinarian versus veterinary and how
to spell veterinarian six vowels and six
consonants six syllables and except the way he
said it you know it just registered all of my
classmates to this day you know we mentioned in
this room just to four or five years ago when I had
the class here, mentioned Al Price and they talk
about veterinarian, six vowels, six consonants,
six syllables.
But he was dressed impeccably,
very energetic, a very energetic lecturer, very
knowledgeable of his subjects. And very
demanding of you. I mean, he did not want you to
miss. He wanted every I dotted, every T crossed.
That was the road to success. And I went into his,
well, attended his first lecture. I don't
remember in what attire, but I went to the first lab
on Monday afternoon. with him. This was osteology
lab where we worked with bones.